---
title: 'The Night is Always Darkest Before the Dawn'
date: 2024-01-20
permalink: /posts/2024/01/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - web scraping
  - fantasy football
  - Sports Analytics
---

Hi! Welcome to my very first Waiver Raider Blog post. I am very excited to share my thoughts on fantasy football and sports analytics with you. This blog and work is born out of an embarrassing fantasy football loss in 2023. I've played fantasy football for more than a decade and have never won a championship. I've come close a few times, but I've never been able to get over the hump. 2023 made me realize that gone are the days of listening to one podcast or following a singular online blog. Fantasy managers need to take more of a hands on approah to managing teams. In my opinion this requires in depth research/analysis paired with information from a couple of professional outlets. 

The Waiver Raider blog is my attempt to explore more of the analytics of fantasy football. Over the past decade fantasy football has become extremely popular. Gone are the days when you could listen to a podcast to prepare for your draft, understand waiver wire priorites and positional matchups. Today's fantasy football requires managers to understand the key statistics that identify top fantasy talent. This blog will chronicle my investigations into some of these key topics:

* Where/how to get yearly data?
* Key positional statistics to investigate
* Understanding the scoring in my league
* Yearly Retrospectives
* How to visualize my investigations?
* Do not draft lists
* Planning for an auction draft

The purpose of this blog is to chronicle my work and investigations. I'm a novice with this stuff, so if you find this, please, no judgement. Each post will have a linked repo where I store my code. Please star the repo if you find it helpful.

 “The night is darkest just before the dawn. And I promise you, the dawn is coming.”
 — Harvey Dent, The Dark Knight